feat: Expand codacy quickstart DOCS-470 (#1547)
codacy/docs: docs/getting-started/configuring-your-repository.md

---
description: Configuring your repository
---

# Configuring your repository

> Once you've [added your first repository](codacy-quickstart.md), **it's important that you configure it** to best match your use case and preferences. An optimal configuration integrates code analysis seamlessly into your development pipeline while avoiding false positives. This encourages your team to follow best practices.

Author: It ended up rather short. I hope all the elements are there, especially assertiveness and value to the user.

Reviewer: This is going in the right direction! :slightly_smiling_face: 

Here are some ideas to further improve the intro:

- I don't think we need the bold to reinforce saying "it's important that you configure your repository", after all, we have an entire page written about it. Instead, it's better to present the advantages of doing these configurations.
- Regarding "integrates code analysis seamlessly into your development pipeline", this will actually only be achieved on the last page "Integrating Codacy with your Git provider".

Here's a suggestion for applying this feedback:

```suggestion
Once you've [added your first repository](codacy-quickstart.md), it's important that you configure the analysis tools to match the use cases of your team and avoid any distracting false positives. In particular, you should configure any coding conventions and best practices that your team may already be following or that you want to enforce.
```

To configure your repository, follow these steps:

1.  [Ignoring files](#ignoring-files)
1.  [Configuring code patterns](#configuring-code-patterns)
1.  [Adding coverage reports](#adding-coverage-reports) (optional)

## 1. Ignoring files {: id="ignoring-files"}

> [Ignore files](../repositories-configure/ignoring-files.md) to prevent Codacy from analyzing compiled code, third-party libraries, and any arbitrary collection of files and directories.

Reviewer: I'm afraid that like this we lose some important arguments to convince the users to perform this step - from the major advantage of avoiding false positives to making sure that developers aren't overwhelmed with issues they don't care about and become discouraged from following best practices.

I would restore the previous information while tying it up better with the existing paragraph:

```suggestion
[Ignore files](../repositories-configure/ignoring-files.md) to prevent Codacy from analyzing compiled code, third-party libraries, and any arbitrary collection of non-essential files to avoid false positives, streamline your quality pipeline, and encourage developers to adopt best practices and keep following them.
```

![Configuring the tools and code patterns](../repositories-configure/images/code-patterns.png)

## 3. Adding coverage reports (optional) {: id="adding-coverage-reports"}

[Add coverage reports to Codacy](../coverage-reporter/index.md) to detail how much of your code is covered by tests and unify your quality and coverage pipelines. You can generate coverage reports locally using the best tool for your project and upload them to Codacy picking from a range of options: CI/CD integration, CLI, Docker, GitHub action, and more.

!!! important
    Setting up the coverage pipeline is a prerequisite for Codacy to act as a quality gate and block merging pull requests.

![Adding coverage reports to your repository](../coverage-reporter/images/coverage-codacy-ui.png)

## Next steps {: id="next-steps"}

Once you’re satisfied with your setup, [integrate Codacy with your Git workflow](integrating-codacy-with-your-git-workflow.md) to flag potential issues, block problematic pull requests, and display other useful suggestions directly on your Git provider.

!!! tip

>     To showcase the current code quality grade and coverage, [add a Codacy badge to your repository](adding-a-codacy-badge.md).

Author: I ended up moving this one to a tip. It's still there but out of the main flow

Reviewer: Good solution for this "extra suggestion" of adding the badge! :+1:
